{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f22\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f23\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f25\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f26\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f27\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\lang3081\kerning28\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title 4 June 2001}{\author Marc Durdin}{\operator Marc Durdin}
{\creatim\yr2001\mo6\dy5\hr11\min48}{\revtim\yr2001\mo6\dy12\hr15\min57}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords277}{\nofchars1581}{\*\company Tavultesoft}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern89}}\paperw11906\paperh16838 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\lang3081\kerning28\cgrid {4 June 2001
\par IMSample Current Implementation
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081\cgrid {The current implementation of IMSample has three modes.  The sample definition file I included (imsample.txt) contains definitions for the letters "a", "e" and "o".
\par 
\par This example works only with Unicode and has not been tested on Windows 95/98.  The final solution will be tested.  It may work, but I haven't tried it.
\par 
\par 1. Direct input (menu appears in text, similar to Peter Hauer's FCI Chinese keyboard)
\par 2. Menu displayed on vowels.  The window below is displayed when "a" is pressed.
\par }{\lang1024     [Image deleted to save space]
\par 3. Menu always visible, changes when keys pressed or menu clicked.  The initial state of the menu is:}{
\par }{\lang1024     [Image deleted to save space]
\par It then changes to the same as the previous window, when "a" is pressed, or the "a" in the window is clicked with the mouse.
\par 
\par The window can be dragged around with the title bar, and it will stay where it last was put.  This position is global to all applications.
\par 
\par We tried to use the caret (blinking cursor) position, but some apps (e.g. MS Word) create their own caret and don't use the Windows routines, so this wasn't reliable.
\par 
\par To change the configuration of the imsample.dll, run the program rconfig.exe.  This will later be integrated into the Keyman shell interface (specifically the Configuration dialog will 
have a separate configure button that is activated when the appropriate keyboard is selected for configuration). }{
\par 
\par If you install this keyboard into Keyman, the imsample.dll and imsample.txt files should be copied into the directory of the keyboard.  In Win2K this will be
\par }{\f1\fs16   \\documents and settings\\all users\\application data\\tavultesoft\\keyman\\keyboards\\imsample
\par }{or
\par }{\f1\fs16   \\documents and settings\\}{\b\i\f1\fs16 yourname}{\f1\fs16 \\local settings\\application data\\tavultesoft\\keyman\\keyboards\\imsample
\par }{
\par In Win95/98, it will be:
\par }{\f1\fs16   \\program files\\tavultesoft\\keyman\\keyboards\\imsample
\par }{
\par With only a bit more work, this IME sample could be usable for just about any menu-type keyboard.
\par 
\par }}