

# Introduction
TODO: #12728 This document doesn't need some of the technical detail that I am dumping here but I need to dump in somewhere
before I forget what I have learned.

**Serial event server and Keystroke processing note.**
There is seralized event queue described in this blog post https://blog.keyman.com/2018/10/the-keyman-keyboard-input-pipeline/
Can largely be considered sepearate to the rest of the key press life cycle. Infact the it can be turned on and off via feature flag. This document will treat the two seperatly for explanation.

## Serial Event Server
The runs in the Keyman main process. I think the kmnLowLevelKeyboardProc is just for the seralized event queue but I might be wrong (it may do other things). The low_levelhook exists before the applications message queue, it receives the key events and forwards them to the serialkeyeventserver for it to queue and the forward to the Windows system


## Hooks
There are 3 hooks registered by keyman for system events 4 if you consider the TIP.
These are:
```
kmnGetMessageProc
kmnCallWndProc
kmnLowLevelKeyboardProc
CKMTipTextService
```
### kmnGetMessageProc
This will be used to capture Windows Message WM not just the key events. Not all key presses make it to the TSF TIP, especially modifiers. Therefore this hook ensures the Keyman engine receives all keystrokes. The relevant messages are  ((mp->message == WM_KEYDOWN || mp->message == WM_SYSKEYDOWN || mp->message == WM_KEYUP || mp->message == WM_SYSKEYUP)).
1. It works with the modifier keys and capslock key and updates Globals::get_ShiftState() the Keyman process internal copy of the current modifer states.
2. It checks the scancode to determine if the key press was generated by the Keyman engine if so it resets the scancode to the correct value.

### kmnCallWndProc
Use to the active Window messages. This does not do any keystroke processsing, handles focus change etc.

### kmnLowLevelKeyboardProc
The low_levelhook exists before the applications message queue, it receives the key events and forwards them to the serialkeyeventserver for it to queue and the forward to the Windows system

### CKMTipTextService

This is not strictly hook but it a regsiterd TextServicesFramework input method. This is where the bulk of the keyboard processing will occurs. It from here the keystroke is passed to Keyman core which will have the keyboard processor with keyboard rules and produce the output actions.

The relevant methods for a key stroke implemented are
OnTestKeyDown:
  Called to determine if a text service will handle a key down event.  Only on non-complaint (not TSF) applications.
OnKeyDown:
  Called when a key down event occurs.
OnTestKeyUp:
  Called to determine if a text service will handle a key up event.  Only on non-complaint (not TSF) applications
OnKeyUp:
  Called when a key up event occurs.



## Overview
The two we are focused on for issues with this PR are `kmnGetMessageProc` and `CKMTipTextService`.
The issues that we are dealing with in this PR arise from the fact that the order in which these service get to process the key stroke is not always the same. This issue comes it greatest when the Keyman engine synthasies a keystroke using `keybd_event` and changes the scancode to `FF` so that both these to process mentioned can recognise that it was generated by Keyman and not process it in the same ways as a user or system generated key event.
Now after the have handled the event they want to set the scancode back to a normal value. However, they don't know if they are the last to process this.
Currently, the `kmnGetMessageProc` callback will clear the scancode but set thread variable
`LastScanCode` and `LastKey`. The `CKMTipTextService` if is is called second will check it the Key it is processing matches the `LastKey` and if `LastScanCode` was Keyman generated code. If so it will not pass it on to the core to be processed. If `CKMTipTextService` is called first the values in `LastKey` and `LastScanCode` will be from the previous key press, however it has no way of knowing its order in the hooks. There is also no timestamp with the key info. If `LastKey` is the same as the current wParam it can incorrectly match it as the same keypress.

This problem is again observed with the `CapsOnOnly and ShiftFreesCaps` keyboard.
When the `Capslock` key was pressed three in a row. On the second press this will cause a synthasised `Capslock` to insure the `CapsLock` Key stays on. When the `Capslock` Key is pressed for a third time it is processed first by CKMTipTextService before the `kmnGetMessageProc` matches the current key with `LastKey` it thinks it is synthasized it doesn't send it for processing in the core and therefore it goes to the application and clears the `capslock` key.

There is no timestamp in the call back informaion in either `wParam` or `lParam`. However we can do a better match I have added `LastTransition` which combines the key direction with previous key value bits. The chances of incorrect miss match is basically gone. For repeated key press the key up will eventually arrive so it works out in this case also.
