# Keyman Developer

This is the current home for Keyman Developer.

# Cross-dependencies

We do not have 100% clean separation between Keyman Developer and Keyman for
Windows. Shared units are intended to live in common, however the following
projects will need to be updated in the future.

* kmbrowserhost in Windows is included as part of Keyman Developer.

# Folders

## src/common

Units shared among Keyman Developer projects, Delphi

## src/ext

3rd party code and components, mostly Delphi

## src/inst - keymandeveloper.msi

Building and signing of the installation archive keymandeveloper.msi.

### src/inst/node

Contains a minimal distribution of node.js intended just for running kmc. If
more dependencies are required, then the developer will be expected to install
node.js themselves; this gets users going without requiring a large installer or
a full node.js install.

## src/kmanalyze - kmanalyze.exe

A keyboard source analysis and automated regression test tool. Testing for
logical errors of a keyboard.

## src/kmconvert - kmconvert.exe & kmconvert.x64.exe

KMConvert converts keyboard layouts between different formats. KMConvert will
generate a full Keyman template project from the imported layout or data, in a
new folder named with the ID of the keyboard. It will not overwrite an existing
folder. Also used to generate new projects from templates.

## src/kmdecomp - kmdecomp.exe

Unsupported utility decompiles a Keyman .kmx keyboard. It will produce a .kmn
source file and optionally a .ico or .bmp image. see kmdecomp/kmdecomp.md for
details.

## src/kmc

node-based next generation compiler, hosts kmc, (and legacy kmlmc, kmlmp)

### src/kmc-analyze - Analysis tools

File analysis tools for Keyman files.

### src/kmc-keyboard-info - Keyboard Info Compiler

Builds .keyboard_info files for use on the Keyman Cloud keyboard repository
at https://github.com/keymanapp/keyboards. Command line access through kmc.

### src/kmc-kmn - Keyboard Compiler

Builds .kmx files from .kmn. Command line access through kmc.

### src/kmc-ldml - LDML Keyboard Compiler

Next Generation keyboard compiler - LDML keyboards. Command line access through
kmc.

### src/kmc-model - Lexical Model Compiler

The Lexical Model Compiler, runs on nodeJS on all supported desktop platforms.
Command line access through kmc.

### src/kmc-model-info - Model Info Compiler

Builds .model_info files for use on the Keyman Cloud lexical model repository at
https://github.com/keymanapp/lexical-models. Command line access through kmc.

### src/kmc-package - Package Compiler

Compiles .kps packages into .kmp files. Works with both lexical model packages
and keyboard packages. Command line access through kmc.

## src/samples

Contains sample keyboards and sample developer projects. See readme.txt for
details.

## src/server

Keyman Developer Server. Node-based, cross platform host app for Keyman
Developer. Used currently for web-based test and deployment. In future, will
be the foundation for a web-based Keyman Developer project.

## src/setup - setup.exe

Installation program for Keyman Developer for Windows. Bundles with
keymandeveloper.msi to generate single deployable installer executable.

## src/tike - "Tavultesoft Integrated Keyboard Editor"

This is the designer side of the Developer. Used for designing, developing,
testing and packing keyboards for distribution.

## src/tools

Various build-time tools for Keyman Developer.