
@@conclusion.txt
<title License>

<b>Licenses and Copyrights</b>

<u>Source code license</u>

The library is subject to the <b>Mozilla Public License Version 1.1</b> (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You
may obtain a copy of the License at <extlink http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/>http://www.mozilla.org/MPL</extlink>

<b>Alternatively</b>, the contents of this file may be used under the terms of
the <b>GNU Lesser General Public License</b> (the "LGPL License"), in which case
the provisions of the LGPL License are applicable instead of those above. If you
wish to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of the LGPL
\License and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the MPL,
indicate your decision by deleting the provisions above and replace them with
the notice and other provisions required by the LGPL License. If you do not
delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file under
either the MPL or the LGPL License.

For more information about the LGPL: <extlink http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html>http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html</extlink>

<u>Documentation license</u>

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-Share
Alike 2.0 Germany

<u>Graphic license</u>

The JWSCL logos are released under a separate license

Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 2.0 Germany
\License

The copyright of parts of JWSCL logos holds the creator Juergen Faff
(juergen.faff(at)teamchris(dot)info)

Copying, distribution and displaying is only allowed in conjunction with the
JWSCL and its documentation. Of course we may also grant exceptions!

<u>Attribution</u>

Please credit the makers of this library if you use it. Put the name of the
library and the URL <extlink http://sourceforge.net/projects/jedi-apilib>http://sourceforge.net/projects/jedi-apilib</extlink>
in your credit dialog box, readme file, contribution file or anywhere a user can
find and read it.

<u>Third party sources, images and tools</u>

Some third party source, images and tools are used in this library and
documentation. The copyright stays at the original authors. The respective
\license is the same as listed above in this section.

<u>Binary/Compiled Applications and Libraries</u>

Applications and libraries are free to use if there is no other saying. However
the Copyright must stay intact. Binary/Compiled Applications and Libraries are
distributed on an "<b>AS IS</b>" basis, <b>WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND</b>,
either express or implied.



Visit Source Forge Project
  * <extlink http://sourceforge.net/projects/jedi-apilib>Sourceforge</extlink>
  * <extlink http://blog.delphi-jedi.net>Webblog</extlink>
